Over the next four videos I'm going to go through what I call the four food groups for our virtual machines
are virtual machines need certain things in their diet.
They need to eat certain resources in order to be healthy and happy.
And the first resource that we're going to talk about the first food group is or.
And the reason I like to equate these to food groups is because if the virtual machine is lacking any
of these if any of these are performing poorly then the VM is going to perform poorly.
You're going to have all the you and memory and storage bandwidth in the world if your network is slow.
You've got to slow VM.
So all of these four food groups are equally important.
But we'll start with C-p virtualization.
So how does my virtual machine get access to the C.P. resources of the physical host.
So here's my host and I've got to C-p sockets.
And for those of you who aren't really too familiar with the CPE architecture when you install a physical
C.P. you are like we call them in the virtualization world.
APCP you install a physical you in a system that's a C.P socket.
Now within that socket you may have more than four processor cores or less than four processor course.
In this case I just chose quad core C.P use.
So I've got a physical host with two physical C-p use installed and each physical CPO has four processor
course.
And so now when I start creating my virtual machines I'm going to allocate my virtual machines a certain
number of virtual C.P. use.
So here we see a VM that has been allocated to virtual C.P use.
Now what does that mean.
Well that means that this virtual machine has access to two physical processor cores.
By creating a VM with two virtual C.P. you is basically saying you are allowed to leverage two physical
processor of course.
I'm not making any guarantees to this V-Amp.
I'm not saying you're the only one who's going to have access to those cars.
I'm not saying you can have full access to those cores at all times.
What I'm saying when I create a VM with two virtual C-p use is you have the ability to try to use two
C.P of course they might be busy they might not and might create other V.M. that are also leveraging
those same process or cores.
So here is a VM with four VCP or four virtual C-p is and this VM just happens to be accessing the same
two processor cores that my first VM was.
So they are now sharing those physical processor cores.
So it's important to properly size my virtual machines and properly size my physical host if I have
too many venoms sharing the same set of processor cores.
Those vehicles are going to perform poorly.
If I have virtual machines that have really CPQ intensive tasks to carry out I may want to put them
on a dedicated set of processors.
So you really need to think about the types of workloads that your virtual machines are going to be
performing and how efficiently can they really share C-p processes with other virtual machines.
Now in most cases you can get a pretty good consolidation ratio where you're going to have many Reems
sharing the same processors but it really depends on the workload of those virtual machines.
And how powerful those processors are.
The other concept that is very important here that I want to take a moment to talk about is right sizing
your virtual machines.
So if I have a virtual machine like this one in purple here I've created it with four virtual c.p.
Right.
Maybe this VM used to be a physical server that I've converted to a virtual machine and maybe that physical
server also had four processors right.
Maybe it was a physical server with a quad core CPO.
And so I think to myself OK I've got this physical server with a quad core C.P. you let me create a
virtual machine with four virtual.
So that it has the same resources that it used to and in some cases that approach is fine.
In some cases it's not.
Let's assume that this virtual machine is on average utilising somewhere around 25 percent of its C.P
you know 25 percent of it CPO Well then it doesn't really need for virtual C-p use does it.
I could take away two of those virtual C-p use and this VM would be working just fine.
It would be closer to a 50 percent CPQ utilization but there's nothing wrong with that.
And the beauty of properly sizing and bringing this thing down to two virtual C-p use is guess what
it's not going to be fighting with my first VM for access to these processor cores anymore.
Right they're all going to play a little bit more nicely together.
So we want to think about that concept as well when we're creating our virtual machines.
We want to right size those Vienna's and give them the correct CPQ account.
If a VM needs for virtual C.P. use then by all means give it for virtual C.P. use.
But if it only needs to you should only give it to.
We want to strive to always right size.
Our virtual machines especially when it comes to C-p resources.